MTV-2585: Accessing Providers in MTV 2.9.0 (#716)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/adding-source-provider.adoc

ifdef::vmware[]
= Adding a VMware vSphere source provider

> You can migrate {vmw} vSphere VMs from {vmw} vCenter or from a {vmw} ESX/ESXi server. In {project-short} versions 2.6 and later, you can migrate directly from an ESX/ESXi server, without going through vCenter, by specifying the SDK endpoint to that of an ESX/ESXi server.

Reviewer: And also by choosing the option of "ESXi" for the "Endpoint type" field within the create provider form.

.Procedure

ifdef::vmware[]
. Access the *Create provider* page for {vmw} by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.

> ... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project is `openshift-mtv`. If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
... Select a *Project* from the list. 
The default project is `openshift-mtv` if active project is set to 'All projects' or the active project otherwise. 
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

Reviewer: @RichardHoch Confirmed.

The current/active project is almost always shown on page header:

![Screenshot from 2025-07-03 14-18-16](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5849a57c-23f6-4f8f-b2b3-3fa0eab48267)

I would replace the "the one shown on the Providers page"  to maybe "current/active project shown in page header." I think this term of "active project" or "current project" is already used in the mtv doc....

.Procedure

ifdef::vmware[]
. Access the *Create provider* page for {vmw} by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.
+
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

... Click *{vmw}*.

.. If you have Administrator privileges, in the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Overview*.
... In the *Welcome* pane, click *{vmw}*.
+ 
If the *Welcome* pane is not visible, click *Show the welcome card* in the upper-right corner of the page, and click *{vmw}* when the *Welcome* pane opens.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.```

Author: Fixed throughout.

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

* *URL*: URL of the SDK endpoint of the vCenter on which the source VM is mounted. Ensure that the URL includes the `sdk` path, usually `/sdk`. For example, `https://vCenter-host-example.com/sdk`. If a certificate for FQDN is specified, the value of this field needs to match the FQDN in the certificate.
* *VDDK init image*: `VDDKInitImage` path. It is strongly recommended to create a VDDK init image to accelerate migrations. For more information, see xref:../master.adoc#creating-vddk-image_mtv[Creating a VDDK image].
+
*Provider credentials*

* *Username*: vCenter user or ESXi user. For example, `user@vsphere.local`.
* *Password*: vCenter user password or ESXi user password.

[start=3]
include::snip-certificate-options.adoc[]

endif::[]

ifdef::rhv[]
. Access the *Create provider* page for {rhv-full} by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

include::snip-certificate-options.adoc[]
endif::[]
ifdef::ova[]
. Access the *Create provider* page for Open Virtual Appliance by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.```

+
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
... Click *Open Virtual Appliance*.

.. If you have Administrator privileges, in the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Overview*.
... In the *Welcome* pane, click *Open Virtual Appliance*.
+
If the *Welcome* pane is not visible, click *Show the welcome card* in the upper-right corner of the page, and click *Open Virtual Appliance* when the *Welcome* pane opens.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

. Specify the following fields:

* *Provider resource name*: Name of the source provider
* *URL*: URL of the NFS file share that serves the OVA
endif::[]
ifdef::ostack[]
. Access the *Create provider* page for {osp} by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

+
include::snip-certificate-options.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::cnv[]
. Access the *Create provider* interface {virt} by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

... Click *{virt}*.

.. If you have Administrator privileges, in the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Overview*.
... In the *Welcome* pane, click *{virt}*.
+
If the *Welcome* pane is not visible, click *Show the welcome card* in the upper-right corner of the page, and click *{virt}* when the *Welcome* pane opens.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

+
include::snip-certificate-options.adoc[]
endif::[]

ifdef::dest_vmware,dest_rhv,dest_ostack,dest_ova,dest_cnv[]
. Access the *Create {virt} provider* interface by doing one of the following:

.. In the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Providers*.
... Click *Create Provider*.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```

+

> If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects, otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```
```suggestion
If you have Administrator privileges, you can see all projects. Otherwise, you can see only the projects you are authorized to work with.
```

... Click *{virt}*.

.. If you have Administrator privileges, in the {ocp} web console, click *Migration for Virtualization > Overview*.
... In the *Welcome* pane, click *{virt}*.
+
If the *Welcome* pane is not visible, click *Show the welcome card* in the upper-right corner of the page, and click *{virt}* when the *Welcome* pane opens.
... Select a *Project* from the list. The default project shown depends on the active project of {project-short}. 
+

> If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the sane as the active project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the active project is *All projects*, then the default project is `openshift-mtv`. Otherwise, the default project is the same as the active project.
```
